
===== PAGE 1 =====
Lab 7:stackl Code Generation
For this lab you will write a code generation visitor. All of the code generation must be
performed in the visitor, not in the AST nodes. The same rules on casting, looping, and leaking
implementation details from one class to another apply to this lab.
The lab7.tar file includes the following:
1. The script that runs tests has changed because it now needs to run your output through the
stackl interpreter. Use the scriptrunc instead of the olderrunt.
2. Theemit.* files should be used by your code generation visitor to perform the actual
code output.
3. io320.sl contains code needed to print values. The following function is defined,
along with some helper functions:
int print(integer value);
To access thestackl assembler and interpreter, you need to modify yourPATH. To do this,
edit the file.bashrc in your home directory. Add the following two lines near the bottom:
PATH=$PATH:/home2/philip.howard/bin
export PATH
If you need help modifying your path, let me know. You may have to log out and back in again
for the changes to be effective.
Your compiler will generate alangout.sl file. This file contains thestackl assembly
program. Therunc script will assemble that file usingslasm. This produces a binary
langout.slb. Therunc script will then run that binary using thestackl interpreter.
If you want to reassemble your file, you can do so with the following command:
slasm –dbg -list langoutout.sl io320.sl
Theio320.sl file contains the code that allows your program to print.
If you want to re-run your program, you can do so with the following command:
stackl langout
If you want to debug your code, you have two options:
stackl -opcodes langout
will print a trace listing every instruction thatstackl executed.

===== PAGE 2 =====
Thestackl environment includes a debugger with capability similar togdb. Since your code
was not compiled with thestackl C compiler, you do not have full symbolic debugging
capability, but you can step through the assembly code (the code in yourlangout.sl) and
examine registers and memory. To run the debugger, use the following command:
stackl -dbg langout
The debugger will complain that it cannot find your debug files. Answer “y” to the question and
you will be in assembly debug mode. You can type “help” to get a list of commands. Some
useful ones:
ni Next Instruction. If you type this twice, you will be at the first
instruction of your program.
FP Print the value of the Frame Pointer
SP Print the value of the Stack Pointer
IP Print the value of the Instruction Pointer
pi Print the current instruction
print 0x123 Print the contents of memory at hex location 0x123 (you must use hex
notation)
bi 123 Break Instruction. Put a breakpoint at instruction at location 123. (See
langout.lst to figure out what location your instructions were
placed at.)
c Continue to a breakpoint
<enter> If you hit<enter> you will repeat the last command
Note: If you have “bad” code, you may cause thestackl machine to machine check (aka seg
fault). If this happens, the debugger is supposed to take control (if you’re running with-dbg),
but this functionality is new to the debugger and has not been fully tested.
Personally, I find running the interpreter with-opcodes generally easier than using the
debugger, but your mileage may vary.
